.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.TH ORACLE 1 "2013-12-02"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
oracle \- a tool for answering questions about Go source code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oracle
.RI [
.IR "flag ..."
.RI ]
.RI mode
.IR "args ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION

The -format flag controls the output format:
.Vb 6
\&      plain	an editor-friendly format in which every line of output
\&      		is of the form "pos: text", where pos is "-" if unknown.
\&      json	structured data in JSON syntax.
\&      xml		structured data in XML syntax.
.Ve

The -pos flag is required in all modes except 'callgraph'.

The mode argument determines the query to perform:

.Vb 6
\&      callees	  	show possible targets of selected function call
\&      callers	  	show possible callers of selected function
\&      callgraph 	show complete callgraph of program
\&      callstack 	show path from callgraph root to selected function
\&      describe  	describe selected syntax: definition, methods, etc
\&      freevars  	show free variables of selection
\&      implements	show 'implements' relation for selected package
\&      peers     	show send/receive corresponding to selected channel op
\&      referrers 	show all refs to entity denoted by selected identifier
.Ve

The user manual is available here:  http://golang.org/s/oracle-user-manual

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-cpuprofile
write cpu profile to file
.TP
.B \-format
Output format.  One of {plain,json,xml}.
.TP
.B \-pos
Filename and byte offset or extent of a syntax element about which to query, e.g. foo.go:#123,#456, bar.go:#123.
.TP
.B \-ptalog
Location of the points-to analysis log file, or empty to disable logging.
.TP
.B \-reflect
Analyze reflection soundly (slow).

.SH EXAMPLES

Describe the syntax at offset 530 in this file (an import spec):

.Vb 6
\&      oracle -pos=src/code.google.com/p/go.tools/cmd/oracle/main.go:#530 describe
\&      code.google.com/p/go.tools/cmd/oracle
.Ve

Print the callgraph of the trivial web-server in JSON format:

.Vb 6
\&      oracle -format=json src/pkg/net/http/triv.go callgraph
.Ve

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Michael Stapelberg <stapelberg@debian.org>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
